diagnosis: Diagnosis at the time of collection of the patient tumour used in the cancer model. Some examples are Colorectal carcinoma, triple-negative breast cancer, TMBC, Ewing sarcoma, EWS.
age_category: Age category of the patient at the time of tissue sampling. Some examples are adult, pediatric, child, fetus, fetal, young adult.
genetic_effect: Any form of chromosomal rearrangement or gene-level changes. Some examples are missense, deletion, amplification, gene rearrangement, fusions, de novo gene fusions, deleterious mutations, missense mutations, deficient, activation, R1181C, Exon 2-7 deletion, microsatellite instability, homologous recombination deficiency, HRD, defect in HR, alterations, V600E.
model_type: Type of patient-derived model. Some examples are xenograft, organoid, tumour organoid, 3D culture, 3D cell line, 2D cell line, tumouroid, spheroid, cell line, PDX, PDO, PDC, patient-derived xenograft.
molecular_char: Data or assay generated from or performed on the model in this study. Some examples are RNA sequencing, WES, whole-some sequencing, RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry analysis, western blot analysis, mRNA expression, microarray analysis, FISH, methylation assays, mass spectrometry, SNP array.
biomarker: Gene, protein or other substance that has been tested to reveal important details about patient’s cancer/disease state. Some examples are BRCA1 mutation, IDH mutant, CD44, TP53, BRAF v600e.
treatment: Treatment received by the patient or tested on the model. Some examples are surgery, mastectomy, lymphadenectomy, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted therapy, FOLFOX, cisplatin, FEC regimen, antibody, alkylating agent, EGRF inhibitor.
response_to_treatment: Effect of the treatment on the patient's tumour or model. Some examples are CR (complete response), PR (partial response), PD (progressive disease), SD (stable disease), progression-free survival, reduces tumour growth, prevents tumour relapse, sustained regression.
sample_type: The type of material used to generate the model or how this material was obtained. Some examples are tissue fragments, cell suspension, cells, biopsy, ascites, surgical specimen, autopsy.
tumour_type: collected tumour type used for generating the model. Some examples are primary, metastatic, recurrent, refractory, pre-malignant, pre-cancerous, treatment refractory, treatment-resistant, endocrine resistant.
cancer_grade: Quantitive or qualitative grade reflecting how quickly the cancer is likely to grow. Some examples are Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3, Grade 4, low-grade, high-grade.
cancer_stage: Information about the cancer’s extent in the body according to specific type of cancer staging system. Some examples are pT4N1M0 (TNM system - Tumour size, Node involvement, Metastasis), Stage IV (number system).
clinical_trial: The type of clinical trial or Clinicaltrials.org identifier. Some examples are NCT03668431, phase II, 1x1x1 experimental design, PDX clinical trial, PCT.
host_strain: The name of the mouse host strain where the tissue sample was engrafted for generating the PDX model. One example is NOD-SCID.
model_id: ID of the patient-derived cancer model generated in this study. One example is PHLC402.
